Add lab vs field data post (#5989)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/learn-web-vitals/lab-and-field-data-differences/index.md

authors:
  - philipwalton
date: 2021-08-17
updated: 2021-08-17
hero: image/eqprBhZUGfb8WYnumQ9ljAxRrA72/OKW9sizk0a8UloNOFx9g.jpeg
alt: Users on their phones
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - performance
  - web-vitals
---

Google provides [a number of tools](/vitals-tools/) to help site owners monitor
their [Core Web Vitals](/vitals/#core-web-vitals) scores. These tools fall into
two main categories:

* Tools that report **lab data**—data collected in a controlled environment with
  predefined device and network settings.
* Tools that report **field data**—data collected from the real users visiting
  your site.

The problem is that sometimes the data reported by lab tools can be quite a bit
different from the data reported by field tools! Your lab data might indicate
that your site performs great, but your field data suggests it needs
improvement. Alternatively, your field data may say all your pages are good, but
your lab data may report a very low score.

The following real example of a PageSpeed Insights report from web.dev shows
that in some cases lab and field data can be different across all of the Core
Web Vitals metrics:

> {% Img src="image/eqprBhZUGfb8WYnumQ9ljAxRrA72/yN4PRURHJnDaLSJKsNsW.png", alt="Screenshot of a PageSpeed Insights report with conflicting lab and field data", width="800", height="509" %}

Reviewer: I find the annotations on this image pretty confusing. First I was confused by the shape of the arrows, I thought that the point of the intersection of each pair should be connected to a label. So the first pair could be related to "Lab data", second pair ??, third pair to "the website". Only after going through that mentally and not finding much sense, I figured out that only the pointy part of the arrow is important, so the first pair is for LCP, second CLS, and then for the third I wasn't sure if the arrow should be in between TBT and TTI or if it was off by mistake. Then I figured it's connecting both TTI and TBT to FID.

The other thing that's confusing me is why is lab LCP connected to the corresponding field bucket (yellow), good lab CLS connected to the worst field bucket (while the field data "verdict" is yellow/needs improvement), and then TBT+TTI point to the field value of FID (not the bucket like the rest). 

Here's my attempt at annotating this image:

<img width="986" alt="Screenshot 2021-08-17 at 15 56 43" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17127567/129740173-d11e5551-670e-43ef-aed1-17790f0e6a96.png">

Author: Great suggestion! Updated.

It's also common (and recommended) for site owners to [collect field data
themselves](/vitals-field-measurement-best-practices/) because it can provide
[more actionable insights](/vitals-ga4/) than just using CrUX alone.

The most important thing to understand about field data is that it is not just
one number, it's a distribution of numbers. That is, for some people who visit
your site, it may load very quickly, while for others it may load very slowly.
The _field data_ for your site is the complete set of all performance data
collected from your users.

As an example, CrUX reports show a distribution of performance metrics from real
Chrome users over a 28-day period. If you look at almost any CrUX report you can
see that some users who visit a site might have a very good experience while
others might have a very poor experience.

If a tool does report a single number for a given metric, it will generally
represent a specific point in the distribution. Tools that report Core Web
Vitals field scores do so [using the 75th
percentile](/defining-core-web-vitals-thresholds/#choice-of-percentile).

Looking at LCP from the screenshot above as an example, you can see a

> distribution where 88% of visits saw an LCP of 2.5s seconds or less (good), 7%

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distribution where 88% of visits saw an LCP of 2.5 seconds or less (good), 7%
```

of visits saw LCP between 2.5 and 4 seconds (needs improvement), and 4% of

> visits saw and LCP greater than 4 second (poor). At the 75th percentile, LCP was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visits saw and LCP greater than 4 seconds (poor). At the 75th percentile, LCP was
```

75th percentile of field data for a given page or site.

The controlled environment of the lab is useful when debugging issues or testing
features before deploying to production, but when you control for these factors
you are explicitly not representing the variance that you see in the real world
across all types of networks, device capabilities, or geographic locations. You
are also generally not capturing the performance impact of real-user behavior,
such as scrolling, selecting text, or tapping elements on the page.

In addition to the possible disconnect between lab conditions and the conditions
of most real-world users, there are also a number of more subtle differences
that are important to understand in order to make the most sense out of your lab
and field data, as well as any differences you may find.

The next few sections go into detail highlighting the most common reasons there
could be differences between lab data and field data for each of the Core Web
Vitals metrics:

* [Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)](/lcp/)
* [First Input Delay (FID)](/fid/)
* [Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)](/cls/)

### LCP

#### Different LCP elements

> The [LCP](/lcp/) element identified in a lab test may not be the same LCP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LCP element identified in a lab test may not be the same LCP
```

[bfcache-friendly](/bfcache/#optimize-your-pages-for-bfcache), it will likely
result in faster LCP scores reported in the field.

#### Effects of user interaction on LCP

LCP identifies the render time of the largest image or text block in the
viewport, but that largest element can change as the page is loaded or if new
content gets dynamically added to the viewport.

In the lab, the browser will wait until the page is fully loaded before
determining what the LCP element was. But in the field, the browser will [stop
monitoring](/lcp/#when-is-largest-contentful-paint-reported) for larger elements
after the user scrolls or interacts with the page.

This makes sense (and is necessary) because users typically will wait to
interact with a page until it "appears" loaded, which is exactly what the LCP
metric aims to detect. It also wouldn't make sense to consider elements added to
the viewport after a user interacts because those elements might have only been
loaded _because_ of something the user did.

The implication of this, though, is that field data for a page may report faster
LCP times, depending on how users behave on that page.

### FID

#### FID requires real-user interaction

> The [FID](/fid/) metric measures how responsive a page is to user interactions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The FID metric measures how responsive a page is to user interactions,
```

_at the time when users actually chose to interact with it._

The second part of that sentence is critical because lab tests, even those that
support script user behavior, cannot accurately predict when users will choose
to interact with a page, and thus cannot accurately measure FID.

#### TBT and TTI do not consider user behavior

> Lab metrics like [Total Blocking Time (TBT)](/tbt/) and [Timg to Interactive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lab metrics such as [Total Blocking Time (TBT)](/tbt/) and [Time to Interactive
```

(TTI)](/tti/) are intended to help diagnose issues with FID because they
quantify how much the main thread is blocked during page load.

The idea is that pages with lots of synchronous JavaScript or other intensive
rendering tasks are more likely to have a blocked main thread when the user
first interacts. However, if users wait to interact with the page until after
the JavaScript finishes executing, FID may be very low.

When users will choose to interact with a page depends largely on whether or not
it _looks_ interactive, and this cannot be measured with TBT or TTI.

#### TBT and TTI do not consider tap delay

> If a site is not optimized for mobile viewing, browsers will [add a 300ms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a site is not optimized for mobile viewing, browsers will [add a 300&nbsp;ms
```

delay](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2013/12/300ms-tap-delay-gone-away)
after any tap before running event handlers. They do this because they need to
determine whether the user is trying to double-tap to zoom before they can fire
mouse or click events.

This delay counts toward a page's FID because it contributes to the real input
latency that users experience. But since this delay is not technically a [Long
Task](https://w3c.github.io/longtasks/), it doesn't affect a page's TBT or TTI.
This means a page may have poor FID despite having very good TBT and TTI scores.

{% Aside %}

> **Tip:** pages can avoid the tab delay issue by always specifying a [mobile viewport](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2013/12/300ms-tap-delay-gone-away).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid the tab delay issue on a page, always specify a [mobile viewport](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2013/12/300ms-tap-delay-gone-away).
```

{% endAside %}

#### Effects of cache state and bfcache on FID

In the same way that proper caching can improve LCP in the field, it can also
improve FID.

In the real world, a user might have the JavaScript for a site already in their
cache, so processing it could [take less
time](https://v8.dev/blog/code-caching-for-devs) and result in smaller delays.

The same is also true for pages restored from bfcache. In those cases the
JavaScript is restored from memory, so there could be little or no processing
time at all.

### CLS

#### Effects of user interaction on CLS

> [CLS](/cls/) measured in the lab only considers layout shifts that occur above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CLS measured in the lab only considers layout shifts that occur above
```
